Class of 27–> 28
Hey, class of 27 here, if you need advice or have any questions my dms are always open.


HI! I'm an international student here. I'm a bit worried about going to haverford as it is REALLY small. its the size of my highschool!!!

Hello, while I am not international, my high school was a similar size. Haverford can really give a summer camp/boarding high school kind of vibe. It is important that you manage you friendships well as it can be tricky if you have a lot of conflict with people around you but otherwise most people do not find it that bad.


Hi! I'm an admittted student and have comitted to Haverford - but I am getting worried about finding friends and community. I read that there is not a RA on each floor to facilitate activities and look out for the students. Did you find it easy or hard to make friends and deal with being away at first? I am friendly but also an introver and more scholar/artsy/music/film than athlete so I don't have an automatic "family" when I arrive in August...


Hi! I wanted to also emphasize I can listen to any questions :) Each first year floor has an RCA, which is an RA. Most first year dorms (tritton, gum and I think barc) have common rooms. The north dorms however (I lived in Jones freshman year,) do not have common rooms unfortunately. If you’re doing any precustoms programs like Chesick or the Outdoor one, you will definitely meet people. Most people in the dorms tend to be friends with their hall mates, especially if they have a common room. This wasn’t my experience though, although I did have a couple friends that were my hall mates, but it was primarily because I joined clubs. I emphasize this very much. Also take advantage of customs week and you should be good. I am a lot like you, but because Haverford is so small, you will likely run into people often in the dining center and make friends that way. It is an adjustment at first living with others, but you get used to it fairly quickly


Thank you so much for your reply! I really appreciate it. We haven’t heard anything about the pre-Customs programs yet. I am not much of a hiker or camper - are there any that are volunteer based or maybe something else in the community?

Your info about the dorms is truly helpful and I will keep this in mind when filling out housing info.

I am hoping for/excited about having a single … Do people tend to keep their doors open when they are in their rooms - to meet people or welcome them in?

I hope your semester finished up well and you have a great summer!


Thank you! I don’t think there were any volunteer precustoms programs last year, but that could change this year. Move in day my friend/hallmate kept her room door open. I will say that I left mine cracked, but I’m a bit of an introvert so I ended up closing it 😭. But some people leave their doors open move in. After that, people tend to shut their doors.


Yes - that sounds like me! I’m going to try and challenge myself to keep it open at first - but, yeah - introvert over here, too!😂


Hi - I am sorry to keep asking room questions. I’m wondering how your room lottery worked out for next year. Were you able to get a single again?

I am also quite worried as I was denied a guaranteed single (requested for medical reasons). I’m hoping a single will be possible through the regular incoming room assignments…but my class is over-enrolled so housing will be extra tight.!