A Guide to Residential Life at Haverford
When arriving at Haverford, I wanted to know as much about the dorms as possible. Thus, I thought this might be helpful for incoming students or students considering Haverford! If I got anything incorrect, please feel free to correct me or share your experience. I'm going mainly off of anecdotes from friends, the residential website, and I've been in all the dorms.

Freshman dorms (as of 2025-2026):

Tritton:

Tritton is all single dorms. It has four quadrants of 20 people who all have their own singles. The layout is kind of like a hotel; you walk down the halls and there are rooms to one side. Each group of 20 shares a common room (which has a big TV, couches, and a kitchenette), two bathrooms (4 showers and 6 stalls total), and a laundry room (two washers and two dryers). Tritton is generally regarded as one of the quieter dorms on campus and was built in 2012, so along with its identical twin Kim, are generally considered the nicest dorms on campus. Of all the dorms (including apartments), the bathroom situation is definitely the nicest. It's located directly across from the campus center and The Coop and a 3 minute walk from the apartments.

Jones:

Jones is majority singles but also has some doubles. Due to the college slightly over enrolling over the last few years, what once were common rooms were converted into doubles. The layout consists of 4 single rooms and a double room that share a hallway and bathroom (which consists of two showers and a few stalls). From what I've seen, these showers are abnormally large lol. There is one common space in the basement which consists of a couch, foosball, and a TV. It also houses the Jewish Student Union in the basement. It's located right next to the other North Dorms, Lunt and Comfort, and is very close to the dining center and blue bus stops. From what I heard, Jones is generally a quieter dorm experience too. The main downside to living in Jones is the lack of common space, as there are no more common rooms besides the communal one in the basement.

Gummere:

Gummere houses the most freshman of all the dorms. It is all singles and has an infamously odd orientation. With a few exceptions, each hall consists of two sets of A,B,C, and D orientation rooms which vary in size. Most halls have a common room, but weirdly, some do not. Gum (as many call it) is considered to be the most social hall. Most people who indicate that they are extroverted end up here. There are also pregames and (rarely) parties hosted in Gum basement. The biggest downside to living in Gum is definitely the bathrooms. Compared to those in Tritton, for example, they are definitely outdated and can use some serious renovations. It is located pretty central on campus and is placed close to the track, the field house, and the Hall building.

Barclay:

Probably the weirdest orientation of the four options, Barclay has singles, doubles, and triples. There are differing orientations; for instance, my friend had a single and shared a common room with one other suite mate. These were furnished but did not come with a TV. However, the first floor of Barc has a pretty big common space/lounge area on top of this orientation. Barclay houses some non-freshman as well. They are getting rid of carpeting this summer, so it will be hardwood floors (which was the main complaint that I'd heard from residents here). One downside to Barc includes that the building is really old, so there are a good amount of defects in the building (broken windows, AC units, etc). The best thing about Barc is definitely the location, it's right on Founders Green and is essentially exactly in the center of campus.

Non-Freshman Dorms:

Lunt & Comfort:

Nearly identical layout to Jones. Lunt has a basement that hosts a good amount of parties throughout the year. This used to be home to "Lunt Cafe," which closed around 2014. There is also Lunt lounge on the first floor which makes up for the lack of common spaces caused by the conversion of common rooms into doubles/RSL rooms. A lot of sophomores end up here as the housing lottery makes it hard to get a single and most upperclassmen who don't opt into group housing take Kim first. In the housing lottery (only applicable for non-freshman), you can apply as a group of 6 to either of these dorms and take up a "suite," which consists of four singles and a double room.

Kim Hall:

Mirror image of Tritton. Very highly-coveted in the housing lottery, making it very hard to get into as a sophomore. Often the dorm where individuals who have living accommodations reside as it is the most accessible (given its modernity). Similarly to Tritton, it has a reputation of being one of the quieter dorm experiences on campus. There is no group housing here.

HCA (Haverford Apartments):

Located on the southernmost end of campus, the apartments house a lot of students at Haverford. While a bit outdated (the college has plans to knock them down in coming years), the interior is actually quite nice. You can apply to the apartments in groups of 2,3, or join an existing community (see the residential website for more information on these). Apts 19 (lacrosse) and 22 (soccer) host a LOT of the parties throughout the year. The biggest upside to living in the apartments is that you can opt out of the meal plan. Given these are real apartments, they have a full kitchen so you can make your own food. The biggest downside is the location. It's about a 15-16 minute walk to the other side of campus, and in the dead of winter, this can be a pain.

Leeds Hall:

Leeds Hall consists of mainly groups of 5 single rooms that share a bathroom (one shower, one stall) and a common space. Along with Lloyd, it is one of the most popular group housing options and is quite hard to get unless you apply with a group of majority upperclassman (although 2 of the suites last year were fully sophomores, so there's a chance you can get it as a sophomore). There is also a section of Leeds that are traditional single dorms but don't qualify as group housing, but these are nearly impossible to get if you don't have accommodations or aren't a senior. It is located near Hall building, the Library, and is quite close to the dining center.

Lloyd Hall:

Lloyd Hall consists of mainly groups of 6 single rooms that share two bathrooms (two stalls, one shower), and a very large common space. It is the most popular group housing option, so most groups are predominantly juniors and seniors. It is located right next to the dining center on the northernmost side of campus. It is virtually impossible to get Lloyd as a group of all sophomores (most opt for Lunt, Comfort, or Leeds in groups of 5 or 6 instead, or live in the apartments).

Community Housing

Includes:

- 710 college avenue (film house) which includes singles and doubles. Located along the long entrance into campus (main entrance).

- Cadbury House (substance free and quiet living) which includes singles and doubles. Fun fact, this space is partially shared with faculty members on the first floor!

- Ira de A. Reid House (Black Cultural center) which includes only singles. Right across from Tritton Hall and next to the campus center.

- LatinX Cultural Center: Established during the 2020 strike. Includes singles and doubles. Located right near the cricket field!

- QHouse (LGBTQ+ affinity housing): collaborates with GRASE to foster a safe space. Established in Fall of 2017.

- Yarnall House (Nerd House): Hosts fun weekly events on campus! Includes singles and doubles. Substance free environment. Located slightly off campus, but still considered on-campus housing.

- Drinker House: Baseball house (not sure how this came to be the case, but there are no non-baseball students there). Hosts some really good parties in the Fall/Winter and a few in the Spring.

Sad that the first year apartments in HCA are no longer a thing, those open floor plans were super conducive to interacting with your hall mates.


Great rundown! Good points for sure. One “historical” detail - pretty sure Lunt Cafe was open through 2017 at least, possibly 2018. A great space for sure

Thanks for that correction. It's a shame they no longer have it. Do you have any clue why they closed it down?

I believe it was for health code violations

Can confirm Lunt cafe was open through 2018, maybe even the beginning of 2019



I have several questions that I don’t know if you can answer.

I’m an incoming freshman with several disabilities and am an ambulatory wheelchair user (I use a wheelchair some of the time, but sometimes am healthy enough to walk by myself). Obviously, if you are disabled in anyway or receive accommodations, you do not need to disclose it (however if you are comfortable, feel free to PM me).

You mentioned that the showers in Jones are “abnormally large”- do these happen to be walk-in showers, where a wheelchair could be rolled in or is there a small step up between the floor and shower area?

If I remember correctly, none of the halls have elevators, so would Barclay be a write off given the common space, or is there a few dorms on the first floor?

For laundry, I believe that all rooms are located in the basement except for Tritton, so would I be allowed to go to another residence hall to do laundry if I’m unable to be put in one with laundry accessible to me?

I noticed that you did not list the ‘Quaker House’ as one of the residences. Has this shut down? I’m a lifelong Friend and was incredibly interested in this housing option come sophomore year.

I was also wondering if it was possible to get floor plans for the residence halls. I was able to look at the blueprints for Tritton because the architectural firm has published them online, but the rest of the halls are locked behind school accounts (which incoming students will not receive until some time in June). I completely understand if you’re not allowed to share the information behind the lock but if you are allowed, it’d be incredibly helpful if I could get freshman floor plans to see where there are accessible rooms so I can determine what accommodations I can ask for that will help me, while making sure I can get the accommodations that are a necessity.

Thanks so much in advance!


I'll try to answer all your questions to the best of my abilities:

I happened to have a video of a Jones bathroom but it unfortunately only shows one of the two showers in each layout. That shower does not look like it's a walk in (it has a ledge you mentioned upon entry), but it's possible the other one is. I can try and find out for you.

I do not believe Barclay is wheelchair accessible. Yes, there are dorms on the first floor, but I believe the entrances are stairs and I don't recall there being a ramp. The building is very old and I don't think they have renovated the exterior in a long time. Your best bet will probably be Tritton, which has ramps to the first and second floor and has two walk-in showers per quadrant.

I'm not 100% sure, but my guess is for your freshman year, you would likely get placed in Tritton (unless you had a strong preference elsewhere). The way our cards work is that you can get into any section/hall of your given dorm and all relevant academic buildings. However, you can't get into other residence hals besides your own, which might make that tricky. To my knowledge, the laundry in Barc, Jones, and Gum are all in the basement.

I mistakenly did not list any of the community housing (but I will add those retroactively, my knowledge is a bit limited on those)! However, upon looking at the options on the page from res life, I don't see the Quaker house mentioned. However, visiting and sitting in on a quaker meeting was a part of our customs itinerary!

Let me PM you the floorplans. They are locked, but I don't see any reason why they should be.

Sorry I couldn't answer everything, but hopefully this was helpful in some ways!


But TLDR: Jones has ledges in their showers to get in so unfortunately they are not accessible. I do not believe they have grip bars from when I frequented Jones.

Barclay has one room that has ramp access up to it and an accessible restroom attached, but I am unsure if it is currently occupied. Laundry is in the basement and there is no way down other than stairs. This is true for every building but Kim and Tritton and the first floor of Q house, which they are trying to get a ramp to get in at the back entrance. They generally do not grant dorm access to any place but your dorm, and would likely suggest you live in Tritton.

Unsure currently about the status of Quaker House but I believe it was in the apartments?

If you email ADS they may be able to get it to you! I will warn they are not fully up to date at times but Kim and Tritton are fully updated last I checked.

One last thing; the walls in Tritton and Kim are EXTREMELY THIN. Everything makes noise, and if people are having a conversation in the common room especially late at night you will hear it. Highly suggest bringing a fan to block out noise especially for sensory purposes!


Can attest to the thin walls having lived there this year! I will say I think the culprit is actually the doors… I never heard my neighbors but always heard outside my dorm. A fan really did help

Hi! Disabled student who just graduated and who did a lot of disability advocacy on campus. Feel free to message me for an in depth review and to answer further questions!

As a current rising sophmore who has a disability, I can't speak to the questions about quaker house, but I can answer the questions about the disabilities part. I know that Jones is not accessible for wheelchairs, so that is not an option. Yes, there are dorms on the first floor of barkley,but the laundry would be in the pasement and no stairs as you mentioned. The first floor of Barkly has the currently only room accessible for a wheelchair. This is because even though the Kim/Tritton dorms are accessible, the rooms are small, so being able to fit in a wheelchair would be hard to do. Someone else mentioned the wheelchair accessible room in Barkley, and there is a freshman currently living in there. I would try to get in contact with ADS office (the disability services office) bbut I will note that they can be sometimes quite annoying or frustrating to work with, but there is a lot of disabled support on campus (I am part of the disability affinity group,am the incomign student council officer of access, and am being part of a new community house based around disabled students). I am blind,so that is why I am involved in these spaces. Overall, I hope this help, and if you have more questions, feel free to PM me.

I have a question about the beds. Do you know if they can be lofted for storage underneath? It’s not clear from the videos we watched and everyone had a different setup.

I can’t speak to all the dorms, but I know people in Tritton and Gummere used bed risers

Hi! I was just wondering how hard it is to get singles, cuz it seems pretty easy according to the other posts I’ve seen. Is that accurate?

As a freshman, I’d estimate you probably have a 80-90% chance if you indicate a single as your preference. As a sophomore it gets harder because you enter the housing lottery with the lowest priority. I’d say from junior year on it’s probably near guaranteed.

I have a question about Trittion and Kim. Is the wall actually like that thin? If someone were to have a conversation on call or just speaking in general in the dorm right next to one or another, would that be heard? Or if a person is vacuuming their room?

The walls in between the rooms are not that thin. I’d play the TV, sing, and have conversations and my neighbor never complained or said he heard anything past a mumble.

However, the doors are thin. This means you can hear very clearly from the common space and people standing outside your dorm can hear you pretty clearly if you speak loud enough. If you have a dorm next to a common room it can get pretty loud.

Hope this helps!

It houses a few students in singles, doubles, and triple rooms. It’s essentially what people get stuck with if they get really unlucky in the housing lottery